README.md, before:

# wikiproxy

A Docker container to set up a proxy of Wikipedia using Caddy Server. Formerly
known as **wikimirror**.

Idea from [Matt Holt](https://twitter.com/mholt6/status/858356637937016832), the
creator of [Caddy Server](https://caddyserver.com/).

This is a work in progress, the goal is to have a Docker container and a set of
scripts so that it is super easy (and fast!) to deploy a Wikipedia proxy.
Ideally, you should only need a domain and a server with Docker.

## Plugins

We are using Caddy with these additional plugins:

* [`dns <provider>`](https://caddyserver.com/docs/tls.dns.ovh)
* <s>[`http.ratelimit`](https://caddyserver.com/docs/http.ratelimit)</s>,
currently disabled (see below)
* <s>[`http.cache`](https://caddyserver.com/docs/http.cache)</s>, currently
disabled (see below)

## Usage

This should work like this:

1. Set up a DNS record for your domain/subdomain;
2. Deploy wikiproxy on a server that supports Docker;
3. Enjoy your new proxy of Wikipedia.

Note that by default we are using OVH and the `ovh` plugin to manage the DNS
validation by Let's Encrypt, your mileage may vary.

Here's a [presentation about wikiproxy](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:ItWikiCon_2020_-_Wikiproxy.pdf)
with a demo at the end, the presentation is in Italian, but you'll get the gist.

## Known limitations

* when visiting from mobile, the user gets redirected to
  `<lang>.m.wikipedia.org` regardless of the originating doman, the right thing
  to do would be redirect users to `<lang>.m.<original_domain.tld>`).
* <s>wikilinks point to the respective domain at wikipedia.org, this issue is
  tracked on [Phabricator][Phabricator] as [bug T156847][T156847]: _Core should
  be aware of the domain it is running on and render mobile domains where
  necessary_</s> (wikilinks seems correct, even if the bug is still valid).
* when caching is enabled, memory usage crawls up until the server is
  out-of-memory, see [caddy-cache issue #42](https://github.com/nicolasazrak/caddy-cache/issues/42#issuecomment-531730785).

## License

This project is released under the MIT license.

[CaddyForum]: https://caddy.community/t/how-to-serve-many-subdomains/2169
[LE_rate_limit]: https://letsencrypt.org/docs/rate-limits/
[Phabricator]: https://phabricator.wikimedia.org/
[T156847]: https://phabricator.wikimedia.org/T156847

Commit message:

Clarify README.md about the ratelimit plugin

README.md, after:

# wikiproxy

A Docker container to set up a proxy of Wikipedia using Caddy Server. Formerly
known as **wikimirror**.

Idea from [Matt Holt](https://twitter.com/mholt6/status/858356637937016832), the
creator of [Caddy Server](https://caddyserver.com/).

This is a work in progress, the goal is to have a Docker container and a set of
scripts so that it is super easy (and fast!) to deploy a Wikipedia proxy.
Ideally, you should only need a domain and a server with Docker.

## Plugins

We are using Caddy with these additional plugins:

* [`dns <provider>`](https://caddyserver.com/docs/tls.dns.ovh)
* <s>[`http.ratelimit`](https://caddyserver.com/docs/http.ratelimit)</s>,
currently disabled (see below)
* <s>[`http.cache`](https://caddyserver.com/docs/http.cache)</s>, currently
disabled (see below)

## Usage

This should work like this:

1. Set up a DNS record for your domain/subdomain;
2. Deploy wikiproxy on a server that supports Docker;
3. Enjoy your new proxy of Wikipedia.

Note that by default we are using OVH and the `ovh` plugin to manage the DNS
validation by Let's Encrypt, your mileage may vary.

Here's a [presentation about wikiproxy](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:ItWikiCon_2020_-_Wikiproxy.pdf)
with a demo at the end, the presentation is in Italian, but you'll get the gist.

## Known limitations

* building caddy with the `ratelimit` plugin fails a [`fix`](https://github.com/abiosoft/caddy-docker/pull/223)
  is being discussed on caddy's repo, but I wasn't able to make it work. Since
  the plugin is not really necessary, I removed it.
* when visiting from mobile, the user gets redirected to
  `<lang>.m.wikipedia.org` regardless of the originating doman, the right thing
  to do would be redirect users to `<lang>.m.<original_domain.tld>`).
* <s>wikilinks point to the respective domain at wikipedia.org, this issue is
  tracked on [Phabricator][Phabricator] as [bug T156847][T156847]: _Core should
  be aware of the domain it is running on and render mobile domains where
  necessary_</s> (wikilinks seems correct, even if the bug is still valid).
* when caching is enabled, memory usage crawls up until the server is
  out-of-memory, see [caddy-cache issue #42](https://github.com/nicolasazrak/caddy-cache/issues/42#issuecomment-531730785).

## License

This project is released under the MIT license.

[CaddyForum]: https://caddy.community/t/how-to-serve-many-subdomains/2169
[LE_rate_limit]: https://letsencrypt.org/docs/rate-limits/
[Phabricator]: https://phabricator.wikimedia.org/
[T156847]: https://phabricator.wikimedia.org/T156847
